---
date: "2006-09-02T00:00:00Z"
tags:
- rails
- typo
- ubuntu
- sqlite
- gem
title: Typo installation on Ubuntu Dapper
---



I have currently an ubuntu dapper running ruby, rails and gem.

As gem will need to compile some stuff you should do :

	$ apt-get install build-essential

Then at first try I had an error :

	Building native extensions.  This could take a while...
	extconf.rb:1:in `require': no such file to load -- mkmf (LoadError)
        from extconf.rb:1
	ERROR:  While executing gem ... (RuntimeError)
	ERROR: Failed to build gem native extension.

I found my ruby installation was not complete, then you shall install following packages :

	$ apt-get install ruby1.8-dev ruby1.8 ri1.8 rdoc1.8 irb1.8 /
	libreadline-ruby1.8 libruby1.8

Installation of typo also needs sqlite3 (you will see, by default the installer creates a database and launchs mongrel)

	$ apt-get install libsqlite3-0
	$ apt-get install libsqlite3-dev
	$ apt-get install sqlite3

Install the ruby sqlite debian packages.

	$ apt-get install swig
	$ apt-get install libsqlite3-ruby

Now it should work fine :)

	$ sudo gem install typo --include-dependencies

	$ typo install directory

At this step, the typo installer creates a directory with a full version of typo and embedded rails, creates a database and launch the blog behind mongrel.

To configure Apache, you can find in <i>installer</i> directory and example of the config file need to put in apache. For my configuration with Apache 2 I did the two commands :

	$ ap2enmod proxy
	$ ap2enmod proxy_http

and change the servername and proxy pass instruction :

	ProxyPass / http://localhost:4434/
	ProxyPassReverse / http://localhost:4434/

Where 4434 is the port configured by typo during installtion. Now just reload apache and you should see your website with a beautiful azure typo.
