---
date: "2008-02-18T00:00:00Z"
tags:
- ruby
- merb
- radiant
title: Radiant to Merb
---



Merb is a (future) great framework. Radiant is good CMS. And they have so much in common. I'm curious about porting Radiant to Merb then I started the challenge. For people interested in the same challenge, I set up a "repository":http://gitorious.org/projects/merb_radiant. Then please feel free to participate.

[update]

I got invited on github then I cloned the git repository to "http://github.com/sbusso/merb_radiant/tree/master":http://github.com/sbusso/merb_radiant/tree/master

h3. Action plan:

Merb is a framework equivalent to Action Pack. It can use Active Record. For generator we can use Rubigen, it s an extract of RailsGenerator.

For this we will use:

 * Radiant trunk r742
 * Merb (core and more) 0.9.0
 * Merb helpers 0.9.0
 * Merb ActiveRecord 0.9.0
 * ActiveRecord 2.0.2
 * Rubigen 1.2.0

The repository tree was build with:

 * Hoe (modified) generated skeleton
 * Merb application
 * Radiant source

h4. 1. Move Radiant base:

 * use plugins as gem:

	* radius 0.5.1
	* highline 1.4.0
	* rubypants 0.2.0
 * use other plugins as ruby libraries:

 	* redcloth
	* bluecloth
 * using active record: nothing to do
 * radius and other ruby libs: nothing to do
 * replace RailsGenerator with Rubigen (Radiant bin)
 * work on initializer
 * desactivate extension dependencies (first step we move only the base)
 * manage Controller and libraries using controllers
 * check routes management
 * work on views to replace Rails specific code

h4. 2. Replace extension system with gems:

 * first, activate gem with only code features
 * second, deal with extension providing assets
