---
date: "2007-09-23T00:00:00Z"
tags:
- ruby
- rails
- scaling
- apache
- mongrel
- cluster
- load_balancer
- debian
- nginx
- freebsd
title: Apache, Mongrel (cluster) and Rails are on a load balancer
---



Following the conference, and some information about scaling Rails application, I decided to investigate about it and write a post on it.

First, I tried to install FreeBSD as recommended for small configuration... Well, I still don't get it, I'm not fan of this installation and stop trying to understand, instead I installed a Debian 4.0R1, not so bad and closer to what I know :)

Secondly, I want to try Nginx. First, need to find the good one to install on Debian, not last dev, maybe the one on the testing repository. Finally I found package with the 0.5.31, latest stable version. Easy to install with dpkg, I only wanted to simply configure static server and point on php application I have. Ouch, the php-cgi stuff is pretty much more complicated than expected, I -had a look to a Rails configuration and- gave up :p.(update: configuration of one server is not so complicated, at least for rails, not more than load_balancer in apache, but it is for php and if you want to dispatch URL on the same domain, it doenst seem trivial)

Then I went back to something I can handle: apache. I have read some article about 2.2 you can use with load_balancer and several mongrel instances. Let's go for it. I found a very complete article: "Time For A Grown-Up Server: Rails, Mongrel, Apache, Capistrano and You":http://blog.codahale.com/2006/06/19/time-for-a-grown-up-server-rails-mongrel-apache-capistrano-and-you/ used also by mongrel website about "Apache Best Practice Deployment":http://mongrel.rubyforge.org/docs/apache.html.

As I faced some issues, please be careful about the following:

1/ Mods to activate:

<pre>
a2enmod proxy
a2enmod proxy_http
a2enmod rewrite
a2enmod deflate
a2enmod headers
a2enmod cache
a2enmod mem_cache
a2enmod file_cache
</pre>

2/ Forbidden access ?
If you have some issue with forbidden access please check your proxy conf file and replace

<pre>
Order deny,allow
Deny from all
</pre>

by

<pre>
Order allow,deny
Allow from all
</pre>

Enjoy!

I'll try again "Nginx":http://nginx.net/ and maybe also pen / pound and "litespeed":http://litespeedtech.com/. A buzzy load balancer: "HAProxy":http://haproxy.1wt.eu/. A lot of work is coming :p. If you have some feedback about these configuration don't hesitate to share it :)
