---
date: "2007-09-23T00:00:00Z"
tags:
- nginx
- debian
- mongrel
- cluster
- ruby
- rails
- configuration
- load_balancer
title: Nginx and Mongrel cluster on debian
---



Nginx is a 'small' efficient http, load balancer server. More and more popular in Rails community, it's a good front end for mongrel clusters. It's seems to be a good replacement for apache, at least for the memory usage (on my test: 1 process use 1.3M against the more than 9M taken by 1 apache process). Benchmark on one single server are quite similar.

The process has been tested on debian 4.0r1 and should work on Ubuntu.

h3. Installation

<pre>
apt-get install nginx
</pre>

or, if you want an up to date product:

1/ Prepare your system

<pre>
apt-get install zlib1g-dev libgcrypt11-dev libpcre3-dev libssl-dev
</pre>

2/ "Download source":http://sysoev.ru/nginx/download.html

<pre>
tar xzf nginx-0.6.12.tar.gz
cd nginx-0.6.12
</pre>

3/ Compile it

<pre>
./configure --pid-path=/usr/local/nginx/logs/nginx.pid \
	--sbin-path=/usr/local/sbin/nginx \
	--with-md5=/usr/lib \
	--with-sha1=/usr/lib \
	--with-http_ssl_module \
	--with-http_dav_module --prefix=/usr \
    --conf-path=/etc/nginx/nginx.conf \
    --pid-path=/var/run/nginx.pid \
    --lock-path=/var/run/nginx.lock \
    --error-log-path=/var/log/nginx/error.log \
    --http-log-path=/var/log/nginx/access.log

make

sudo make install
</pre>

h3. Configuration

The following configuration is for 1 nginx server with load balancing 3 mongrel in cluster:

1/ Mongrel cluster configuration

<pre>
gem install mongrel_cluster -y

cd /var/www/my-app-path/current/
</pre>

configures 3 mongrel in cluster, in production mode, starting at port 5000 and listening on localhost

<pre>
sudo mongrel_rails cluster::configure -e production \
    -p 5000 -N 3 -c /var/www/my-app-path/current/ -a 127.0.0.1 \
	--user www-data

mongrel_rails cluster::start
</pre>

2/ Nginx

<pre>
nano /etc/nginx.conf
</pre>

Use the "nginx.conf":http://brainspl.at/nginx.conf.txt file from "brainspl.at":http://brainspl.at/ website, change the 2 or 4 (if you use ssl) references to the path of your application (/var/www/my-app-path/current/)

<pre>
/etc/init.d/nginx start
</pre>

All these information come from many website (thanks to all), I put them together for my own usage, hope it's helpfull.
